celery -A core beat -l INFO --scheduler django_celery_beat.schedulers:DatabaseScheduler

Step 2: Schedule the Task with Celery Beat
Now that we have the task, we need to tell Celery Beat to run it automatically. The easiest way to do this is through the Django Admin interface.

Run Your Server: Make sure your Django server and Celery worker are running.

Log in to Django Admin: Navigate to your admin panel (e.g., http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/) and log in as a superuser.

Go to Periodic Tasks: In the admin dashboard, find the DJANGO_CELERY_BEAT section and click on Periodic Tasks.

Add a New Periodic Task: Click the "Add periodic task" button.

Configure the Task: Fill out the form like this:

Name: Clean Up Stale Payments Every Hour (or any descriptive name).

Task (registered): In the dropdown, find and select cleanup_stale_pending_transactions. This name comes from the @shared_task(name=...) decorator in your code.

Interval: Click the green + to add a new interval schedule.

Every: 1

Period: Hours

Click Save.

Enabled: Make sure this box is checked.

Save the Periodic Task: Click the Save button at the bottom of the page.

That's it! Celery Beat will now automatically run your cleanup task every hour, keeping your database tidy and ensuring abandoned transactions are properly marked.

3. How to Schedule the Task
Creating the task code is the first part. The second part is telling Celery to run it automatically. You will do this from your Django Admin panel.

Start your server and Celery worker.

Log in to the Django Admin.

Under the Celery Beat (or Periodic Tasks) section, navigate to Periodic Tasks.

Click "Add Periodic Task".

Fill out the form with the following details:

Name: Clean Up Stale Pending Payments

Task (registered): Select cleanup_stale_pending_transactions from the dropdown list. (If it's not there, restart your Celery worker so it can register the new task).

Interval: Choose "Interval Schedule".

Every: 12

Period: Hours (This will run the task twice a day, which is a good frequency).

Enabled: Make sure this box is checked.

Click Save.

That's it! Your system will now automatically maintain itself by cleaning up old transactions every 12 hours.